update dev container instructions (#1701)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/developer/DEV_CONTAINER.md

# VSCode Dev Containers

VSCode Dev Containers are great for developing as they contain all of the project's dependencies and in the end you have a ready-to-use dockerFile which can also be used in your CI/CD pipeline.

> It provides a normalized experience to all VSCode users across MacOS, Windows and Linux. All you need to get going is a the open source docker engine (not Docker Desktop!) and docker-compose.

Author: Technically it should be `the` as there is only one docker engine. And the `need not be` is not powerful enough for the user to prevent them using it.

> It provides a normalized experience to all VSCode users across MacOS, Windows and Linux. All you need to get going is a the open source docker engine (not Docker Desktop!) and docker-compose.

Reviewer: Agree on the `the` part.

But, why prevent anyone from using Docker desktop? It's **not recommended** in our context due to the recent licensing changes which impacted us as a group. But, for an OSS developer/enthusiast, "legally" using the free Docker desktop would not be an issue at all. He may even be using Docker desktop already. So, I don't see why we want to prevent anyone from using Docker desktop when the dev container setup doesn't care which flavour of docker you're using underneath (right?).

> It provides a normalized experience to all VSCode users across MacOS, Windows and Linux. All you need to get going is a the open source docker engine (not Docker Desktop!) and docker-compose.

Author: I guess I don't want to writing instructions for people using docker desktop. Plus I feel that when people use docker desktop they think that everything should just "work"...which is definitely not the case, especially when you start at looking at volume mounting from the host filesystem (which is what most people on windows try to do straight away).

More information about Dev Containers can be found from the [official documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/devcontainers/containers).

## Pre-requisites

Before VSCode Dev container can be used, you need to install a few things.

1. Install `docker` and `docker-compose` if you do not already have these

    Checkout the [INSTALLING_DOCKER](./INSTALLING_DOCKER.md) instructions to help guide you

1. Install VSCode and make sure it is up to date

2. Install the Remote Development extension

    ```

>     ms-vscode-remote.vscode-remote-extensionpack

Author: I'd prefer to leave the extension pack as it also includes the WSL and SSH stuff which I would encourage users to be aware about. The WSL extension will also be useful for Windows user's as they will be installing docker-ce inside WSL.

    ```

## Getting started with Dev Containers

Once the pre-requisites have been installed, you are ready to start using the dev container. You only need to run this instructions once. If you have already setup your dev container and just want to know how to re-open it, please read the next section.

> There are two main methods when setting up the dev container, we recommend using the `Method 1`. `Method ` uses the `Clone in Named Container Volume` strategy as  it is more performant on most Operating Systems. For more information about it please refer to the following [Dev Container documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/improve-performance). The only downside to this method is that the code will be stored in a docker volume. This means you can not directly navigate to the project from your the systems file explorer, however you can still `download` files from it from VSCode file explorer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two main methods when setting up the dev container, we recommend using the `Method 1`. `Method 1` uses the `Clone in Named Container Volume` strategy as  it is more performant on most Operating Systems. For more information about it please refer to the following [Dev Container documentation](https://code.visualstudio.com/remote/advancedcontainers/improve-performance). The only downside to this method is that the code will be stored in a docker volume. This means you can not directly navigate to the project from the host system's file explorer, however you can still `download` files from it from VSCode file explorer.
```

But in both methods it is recommended to fork the project first, then clone from your fork. You can fork from the [GitHub](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io) website, and then copy the git url from your fork.

> 

Reviewer: Also worth mentioning that it is **not** recommended to clone the repo inside the container directly, as it might lead to your work getting lost when the container is rebuilt in future.

Author: You can't actually clone it inside the container directly, as the container does not get built without having access to the code.

The `clone in named container volume` keeps a persistent volume which does not get destroyed when rebuilding the container. But generally there should be very low risk of loosing code because users should not be scared of doing commits and pushing them to the branch on their fork. This is a good habit to get into in general, as your computer can die at any point (or get lost, stolen etc.).

### Method 1: Cloning in named container volume (Recommended)

1. In VSCode, open the command pallet (`Cmd + Shift + P` (MacOS) or `Ctrl + Shift + P` (Windows))

2. Enter `Clone Repository In Named Container Volume`

    ```
    Dev Containers: Clone Repository In Named Container Volume
    ```

    Enter your forks git url, for example the https style url will look something like this:

    ```
    https://github.com/<your_github_username>/thin-edge.io.git
    ```

    Then follow the remaining prompts (usually you can just accept the default values).

3. Now you can sit back and wait for the dev container to be built. VSCode will set everything up for you (including installing the project specific extensions automatically). Don't worry it just takes a while to build the first time around. Reopening the container again later on is quick

### Method 2: Cloning to the host filesystem

1. Open a terminal

> 2. Clone the forked thin-edg.io project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Clone the forked thin-edge.io project
```
